abdulh Hadi sidam and umani marish are
displaced from the shua neighborhood in
Northern
[Music]
Gaza we were displaced in 1948 from the
aimi area in Jaffa where we used to live
now we are displaced again in Gaza my
house was destroyed by an Israeli air
strike valued at $3 million we lost our
home and our
Fortune many elderly Palestinians have
been through multiple displacements and
Wars which can cause deep psychological
trauma reliving this opens Old
Wounds I experienced the 1956 War the
tripartite aggression on Egypt I also
witnessed naxa War in 1967 and the 1973
War but I haven't seen anything more
horrific than the current war in 2023
destruction is
everywhere evacuation under bombs is
difficult for anyone but particularly
tough on the elderly as most cannot move
quickly and may need assistance walking
like umh marish once in the UN shelters
life is still very
hard here in the camp you can't find
basic food there's no drinking water
nothing go and see the bathrooms they're
unfit for human use I'm 71 and working
even though I don't want to because I
need to
live without sanitation and clean water
the risk of getting sick in the shelter
is high for an elderly person a simple
illness like a bite of diarrhea can be
very dangerous weakening an already
frail body the lack of medicines is also
extremely problematic more than 50% of
older people have some kind of long-term
prescription from heart diseases to
diabetes but with the blockade these
drugs are not available putting people
at further risk the tight Siege combined
with the bombardment and the
displacement and also the ant sanitary
conditions in the shelter are the
perfect storm if you wish for more older
people to get sick and I think it is a
matter of time that we will start seeing
older people dying as direct result of
the siege indirect result of the
conflict before the war around 500 Aid
trucks were entering Gaza every day now
it's roughly
100 until the aid Returns the bombing
stops and people are able to leave
shelters everyone remains at risk but
the vulnerable sectors of society in
Gaza are in acute danger imagin Kimber
Al jazer